# An-Analysis-of-the-Presence-of-Asian-Musicians-in-Global-Top-Music-Charts

For our analysis, the group decided to utilize Spotify, Billboard, and Wikipedia as our sources of information. Using information scraped from Wikipedia’s Category pages, the group was able to create a reference table for musicians from East Asia, SouthEast Asia, and Asian-Americans. Please note that in this report, we will be referring to musicians of pure Asian descent as Asians, and those of Asian-American descent as mixed-Asians. The group then collected information from Spotify and Billboard using their respective APIs and processed the scraped data into a separate table. We used these databases as references to check the Asian lineage and origin country of musicians who have been featured in Spotify and Billboard’s top charts for our analysis.

Asian artists have been able to consistently occupy a space in Spotify’s and Billboard’s global music charts 5% to 10% of the time, within 2016-Dec-29 to 2021-Jul-31, which serves as the scope of our study. Prior to mid 2018, mostly mixed-Asian artists overshadowed the number of streams that Asian musicians received. Asian participation was mostly due to the influence of mixed-Asians, but as time progressed, we see more Asians appearing in the top charts. It was after this period that a Korean Pop Craze took over the world as Blackpink and BTS overwhelmed Top Music Charts. This trend has died down only recently but has been succeeded by a rising interest in mixed-Asian Musicians. In fact, within the last 2 years of our scope, mixed-Asians were chart toppers 31.11% of the time, while Asians made the top charts 17.77% of the time. While mixed-Asians can be perceived as trail-blazers, the succeeding generation of music idols are more Asian.

Asians had indeed started to infiltrate the music scene although not at the scale that the group had initially envisioned. Data from Billboard and Spotify show distinctive spikes in terms of Asian contribution to the western music scene. In Billboard, prior to 2020, Asians were not able to have 30 or more artists in any of the charts. However, there are still occasional peaks observed. The first in March 2017 was mostly due to Bruno Mars while the one in November 2018 was due to multiple appearances in the chart of Bruno Mars, Tyga, and Blackpink. By late 2020, a change in trend occurred across all charts. Asian artists appeared in greater numbers. A total of 70 Asian artists appeared in Spotify charts and 62 Asian artists appeared in Billboard charts.

In terms of appearing in Spotify and Billboard charts, in the late 2020 and early 2021, Asians started to perform better than mixed-Asians in the global charts of both Billboard and Spotify. Second quarter of 2021 shifted the story wherein we now have mixed-Asians dominating all charts. Despite this trend reversal, the inroads that Asians (as compared to mixed-Asians) have made in the Spotify and Billboard charts cannot be ignored.

It is also worthwhile to note that Asians have already been able to top the ranking of Billboard. This was achieved in Sept 2020 by the Korean group called BTS. This achievement has only been done by BTS but based on what the group has seen in its study, it is probable that other Asian acts will follow and top the Billboard rankings.
